So we learned that we can use property binding to bind to our own properties, properties of our components,
now this is what I'll start with.
So to temporarily prevent my app from crashing, I will simply comment out the code in the cockpit so
that this doesn't give us any errors anymore
for now, we won't be able to use it but it will not crash.
Now in the server components, server-element component, if we have a look at its TypeScript, at its HTML file,
excuse me, you'll see that we try to access the element, the single element, the single server element and
therefore, we should create a property in this TypeScript file, element which represents our server.
We can even assign a type by adding a colon and then simply defining the type which will be a Javascript
object hence the curly braces
and just because it's important, this is not the value, this is TypeScript syntax for defining the type
to make sure that element may only have this type and we then know that an element will have what
we're trying to access here,
a type, a name and a content. So we'll have a type and type on its own will be of type string,
we will then have a name which will be a string and we'll have a content which will be a string.
So that is all now our type definition for a property we want to use in our HTML code, we use here
in all these places. Now still this element, this property is part of this component only, of the server
element component,
we can't access it from outside.
Now it would be great if in our app component where we manage our server or our array of serverElements
I should say, if we could somehow access this property because let's say just so that we can see something,
we start with one server here which is of type server, has a name of test server and a content of just
a test
and just to be super clear, these colons here are not type definitions,
we're on the right side of the equals sign,
so here we are assigning a value and the value here simply is a Javascript object and in Javascript
objects, we simply assign key-value pairs or we create key-value pairs by having the key, then the colon
and then the value,
so normal Javascript syntax here.
So now, we get our serverElements array,
we're looping through this array here on the app-server-element in the app-server-element,
we have our element property,
so a property in that component.
Now we want to access this component from outside,
so it would be great if we could bind to it, just like we were able to bind to disabled.
So maybe add square brackets, enter the name of the property in between,
so the name of the property in the component, here this name and then assign the server element, so simply
the element we store for each iteration in this variable here. It would be great if we could do this
and if we try this and our app reloads, we see that we get an error that we can't bind to element because
it isn't a known property of app-server-element.
Now you would say that is not true,
it is a property of server element. Here
we defined it as a property,
it's even public right,
we didn't add private in front of it or anything like that,
so why can't we access it? Simple answer, because by default, all properties of components are only accessible
inside these components, not from outside
and that generally is a good thing.
You don't want to make all your properties bindable from outside.
So you have to be explicit about which properties you want to expose to the world so to say.
So if you want to allow parent components to be able to bind to this property,
you need to add something to that element property,
you need to add a decorator.
Remember, I said that decorators are not only available for classes,
here we're going to add onto this property, the decorator we need to add is @input and here important, you
need to execute it,
it's like a function in the end,
so add parentheses and input now needs to be imported from @angular/core.
With this in place, now we are successfully exposing this property to the world,
so now any parent component, any component hosting our server element component, so implementing it through
its selector like we do here, is now able to bind to element and I can demonstrate this if we save this,
you now see just the test here, you see our component because now we replicate this component for
each element in the array and we successfully can pass the element, the property down to that component
and bind to the element property in that component.
And this is how you can set up custom property binding on your own events, exposing your own properties
to the components where you implement these components through the selector.